♪ [music] ♪
Let's take a hot second to fix an issue
that we have with our slugs,
and that is if you have something of the
same name, the slug will get overwritten.
So let's say we have Brew Bar here, and
the slug is brew-bar. If I were to add
another one called "Brew Bar," because
there's two Brew Bars, and we'll call it
"Brew Bar 2"... Upload a photo real quick.
Brew Bar, let's see.
There's one in Australia. Good. We upload
it. We successfully created it,
but "Good Beers" was the description of
the first one. Now, how do we get to the
second one? Well, we've created this
unreachable URL, where we have Brew Bar
and Brew Bar. Both of them go to,
actually, the first Brew Bar,
not the second Brew Bar. That's just
because, if we open up our schema,
Store.js, and our Models directory, you'll
see that our .pre('save') function here is
pretty simple, in that it just says,
"this.slug = slug(this.name)".
So we're not checking for any duplicate
slugs, or anything like that,
and that's exactly what we want to do
right now. So we will change this function
to an async function. Because what we're
going to do is, before we save the actual
store, we're going to check if there are
any other stores with that same slug.
So we'll go down here. We'll make it
async, go down below where we say,
"this.slug = slug", and then we need to
find other stores that have a slug of wes,
wes-1, wes-2, etc. Because the whole idea
here is, if we have a store called "Wes",
and then we have a second store called
"Wes", it should be Wes 1.
Then, if we have already two stores that
are Wes and Wes 1, it should be Wes 2,
etc.etc. So what we need to do here is
make a RegEx that is going to search for
stores that have a slug of wes, wes-1,
wes-2, wes-3. So essentially,
what we need to do is, we need to search
for stores that have anything with "Wes"
or anything that has "wes-", and then some
sort of number. So it's going to be a
little bit of a complex RegEx that we have
here. Feel free to go ahead and grab this
from the step solutions if you don't feel
like typing this by hand.
But I really just want to get the point
across about how this actually works.
So we're first going to make a RegEx,
which is "const slugRegEx".
If you've never written a RegEx before,
it's sort of like a way to pattern match
in JavaScript. We'll say, "new RegExp()",
regular expression. The regular expression
is going to be in backticks. Let's do the
second part first. We'll just say it's
'i', which is case insensitive. So if we
have an uppercase or a lowercase,
I don't want to have the slugs overriding
each other in that sense.
So our regular expression is going to have
a hat and parentheses.
Then, we put "this.slug" inside of it. So
far, what this means is that we are
searching for URLs that start with
"this.slug". Okay. So far so good.
Then, we want to have a second group here,
where we say it ends with...
That's what $ is. It ends with one of two
things. We put another capture in there,
a dash and zero through nine, and then
that can be as many. It could be one.
It could be wes-100. So we have * and $,
which means that ends with that.
Then, in between those two, we're going to
put a question mark,
which means that part is option. Woo. What
that means is we're looking for something
with a slug, and then it might end
in -1, -2, -3, -4, -5. Next,
we need to actually pass that RegEx into a
query. So we'll say,
"const storesWithSlug = await". Now, we
need to... We essentially want to say
"store.find", but we don't have "store"
yet, because we actually haven't even made
it yet. So how do you access the model
inside of a model's function?
This was a little bit confusing to me at
first. But I eventually got it with
"this.constructor.find", and
"this.constructor" will be equal to
"store" by the time it actually runs.
We're going to find stores where the slug
is equal to the slugRegEx. So when you
have to do sort of a fuzzy match,
you can always use a RegEx, instead of an
actual absolute value.
Then, right here, we're going to say,
"if(storesWithSlug.length)",
so if there are any matches that have come
back, we're simply going to overwrite
"this.slug" by saying, "this.slug = ''".
We're going to say "$-" and
we're going to say, "-1, -2, -3, -4". We
need to make that part dynamic.
So we'll say, "${storesWithSlug.length +
1}". So what will happen is if we search
for "Wes", it's going to come back with,
"Yes. Somebody already used that," and
there's going to be one. So we're going to
say, "Okay. Well, that slug is already
taken. This is going to be wes-1." So it's
going to be wes-1, and then there'll be
wes-2, wes-3, etc. , etc. So give that a
save. Then we call "next",
which will continue on the saving of our
actual data to the database.
We'll give this a refresh. We'll try to
make a new Brew Bar now.
So click on Add, Brew Bar. We'll say,
"Brew Bar 3". Choose a file here and
upload. "Bar". Let's get another one. Man,
Australia has a lot of Brew Bars.
Save, and you can see now
that Brew Bar is showing up.
Because there was two already, Brew Bar 3
is now... If I ever were to add a fourth,
it would be Brew Bar 4, etc.etc. You get
the point. Right? So sometimes you need to
make a little bit more advanced functions,
and that is done in your store schema pre
hooks. Because we're using async/await, we
don't need to use any callbacks.
We just make that
function async, as well.
♪ [music] ♪